earth looks lat and feels flat
the logical explanation is the
earth is flat right but like
once you get past the crazy talk
how do we know the earth is
round
welcome back my woke friends
trace here for dnews if you
follow the pervasive yellow
journalism online and elsewhere
you've probably heard of rapper
b.o.b is beef with NASA science
and specifically dr. Neil
deGrasse Tyson astrophysicist
and science lab love Neil
in short some pop culture peeps
think that the earth is flat
proving them wrong is simple
though it took hundreds of years
for science to figure it out in
the first place
we know the earth is round by
observing it closely if you
watch a ship as it disappears
over the horizon
the bottom will vanish first and
then the top disappears later
it looks like it's sinking kind
of that's because the earth is
curved using a stopwatch you can
do your own experiment to prove
it watch the Sun set over the
ocean or an open plain with a
friend if you stand while they
lay down each will see the Sun
cross the horizon is a slightly
different time
the Greeks first realized this
2,500 years ago and spent
hundreds of years attempting to
explain it first
mathematician pythagoras looked
at the moon and discovered a
curve in the line dividing the
light from the shadow on its
surface that line is called The
Terminator a flat moon would
have a straight line
the only explanation the moon
must be a sphere sometime later
an accident horas while watching
the moon during an eclipse
realize the shadow covering the
moon
that must be coming from the
earth and that shadow was
definitely curved so the earth
must be around and still later
in about 350 BC Aristotle noted
that star constellations that
were visible in Greece were
hidden beyond the horizon in
Egypt
his conclusion yet again was the
earth must be a sphere just like
the moon sidebar notice humanity
knew the earth was around 1800
years before 1492 in columbus
sailed the ocean blue just
debunking some great school crap
don't worry about once these
great thinkers realize the earth
was curved they wanted to prove
it
a Greek astronomer named rasta
themes figured it out on the
summer solstice the sun reaches
a peak at the top of the sky
rasta things went to two distant
locations in Egypt on the
solstice and measured shadows
cast by tall towers in each
place then using some geometry
you can calculate the curvature
of the earth between those two
places from there he could
extrapolate how many degrees
around
the circle of the earth he has
moved ultimately revealing the
circumference and diameter of
the whole planet
dang rasta themes thanks to all
these ancient humans we know the
earth is just a bit over 40,000
kilometers around the poles
which is also supported by
modern observations and knowing
that we can determine how far
the horizon is from you at any
given point which changes
depending on how high above sea
level you are the earth is
curved and we know it in the end
the problem is flatter thurs
don't trust science when the
flat earth society was founded
in the mid-1920s the idea was
that observation trumps all this
is called The Satanic philosophy
many skeptics believe the same
you can see it all over the
internet if the earth looks flat
it must be flat and often the
skeptics cry prove me wrong
only trust your own observations
the funny thing about that
argument is that it was
observation that showed us the
Earth's curvature in the first
place
Pythagoras observed that shadow
line across the moon countless
people have observed ships
sailing underneath the horizon
not to mention the fact that
we've gone to space and observed
a very spiritual earth from
above and if you don't believe
all of those scientists and
government people for some
reason
go make your own observation
climb a mountain watch a ship
sail over the horizon
watch the sunset with a friend
flying an airplane and behold
and in arguably spherical earth
your move Bob conspiracy
theories are just the best
aren't they have you ever
wondered why people love 911
conspiracies or why were so
obsessed with the Illuminati or
which conspiracy theories might
actually be true
check out test-tube plus my
other show we talked about that
for a whole week we covered all
of those topics and more
check it out the thing about 9
11 though is we didn't expect it
to happen so there was a lot of
mis reporting on that day there
were bombs on the ground to some
people said there were other
planes in the air some people
said there were car bombs parked
outside of buildings
some people said you guys know
anything else we should make a
video debunking let us know down
in the comments and come back
here every day for more dnews
yeah